    Vimp3 - music player for Vim
================================

Vimp3 is a music player that uses python and mplayer as backend to play mp3s,
ogg, flac and wma files. Currently it only works on linux and it will probably
be too much work to get it working on windows. To use Vimp3, you will need to
run the server program included in this distribution.

Vimp3 is a fairly basic player but it includes a few uncommon features like
automatic scores, random play based on scores and an option to pause between
tracks for specified number of seconds.

Vimp3 supports most usual commands like next, previous, pause, random, repeat
track or playlist, shows current track, elapsed and total time in vim's status
line, volume control and seeking.

This document assumes your mapping leader to be '\'.

    Quickstart
==============

You need mplayer installed and, if you want to use volume control commands,
you need aumix as well.

First thing to do is to start the server:

    ~/.vim/python/vimp3_server.py

Edit plugin/vimp3.vim, change shortcuts to your taste and most importantly,
change s:root to point to the location of your music.

Create playlist file:

  :e playlist.vimp3

Add a first playlist name, format of this line should be exactly as shown
(NO leading spaces):

--- Rock

Use Vim :cd command to change directory to one of the subdirectories of
s:root. For example, if your music is in /home/user/music/, and you have rock
and pop subdirectories, enter:

    :cd /home/mydir/music/rock/

[WARNING: If you have a lot of files under this directory, the following
command will make Vim unresponsive until it scans all the directories
recursively.]

Use the '\d' command to add all music files recursively. You should end up
with something like this:

--- Rock

Steely Dan - Pretzel Logic [BeLight]/
  01 Rikki Don't Lose That Number.ogg  [35]
  02 Night by Night.ogg  [35]
  03 Any Major Dude Will Tell You.ogg  [35]
  04 Barrytown.ogg  [35]
  05 East St. Louis Toodle-Oo.ogg  [35]
  06 Parker's Band.ogg  [35]
  07 Through with Buzz.ogg  [35]
  08 Pretzel Logic.ogg  [35]
  09 With a Gun.ogg  [35]
  10 Charlie Freak.ogg  [35]
  11 Monkey in Your Soul.ogg  [35]

Tom Waits - Closing Time/
  Tom Waits - Closing Time - 01 - Ol'55.ogg  [35]
  Tom Waits - Closing Time - 02 - I Hope That I Don't fall I.ogg  [35]
  Tom Waits - Closing Time - 03 - Virginia Avenue.ogg  [35]
  Tom Waits - Closing Time - 04 - Old Shoes(& Picture Postca.ogg  [35]
  Tom Waits - Closing Time - 05 - Midnight Lullaby.ogg  [35]
  Tom Waits - Closing Time - 06 - Martha.ogg  [35]
  Tom Waits - Closing Time - 07 - Rosie.ogg  [35]
  Tom Waits - Closing Time - 08 - Lonely.ogg  [35]
  Tom Waits - Closing Time - 09 - Ice Cream Man.ogg  [35]
  Tom Waits - Closing Time - 11 - Grapefruit Moon.ogg  [35]
  Tom Waits - Closing Time - 12 - Closing Time.ogg  [35]
  Tom Waits - Closing Time -10 - Little Trip To Heaven.ogg  [35]

Vimp3 will fold all directories initially, you can open and close folds using
standard Vim zr/zm commands.

Press '\h' to see the list of available commands - some of them are only for
the playlist buffer, others will work everywhere.

The first thing that must be done after creating or modifying a playlist is to
load it to server using '\l' command (cursor has to be anywhere inside that
playlist). If you modify the playlist in any way, in particular, by copying,
moving tracks or adding / deleting blank lines, you have to reload the
playlist because the server and Vim communicate based on track's line number.
If you change the end of playlist you can still play files in the middle or
beginning, but the end will be out of sync.

To play any file, position cursor on it and hit Enter.

The numbers to the right of each track are scores, they can go from 0 to 100
and will automatically increase when you finish playing a track and will
decrease if you skip a track. You can also manually change scores using -/+
keys ('=' is the same as plus).

When you're playing a track, its name will show up in vim's statusline,
elapsed and total time will be displayed next to the name.

In the playlist, current track is indicated with a leading "> " and a
different colour.


    Limitations
===============

As far as I know, Vim can't run a thread or a continuous loop that won't block
vim itself. Because of that, vimp3 has to update its state on each user
keypress.  This can lead to a slight slowdown of Vim; to minimize this,
communication with the server is done about once in 10 seconds. When a new
track starts playing, it will take 5 seconds on average to update information
in status bar and current track indicator in playlist.

In addition, statusline display will only update after a user keypress - if
you're away for a long time, no updates will be shown but after the first
keypress after you return, display will be updated.

    Notes
=========

You can have as many playlists per file as you want.

You can edit playlist using usual Vim commands, the only rules of thumb are
that format of line with playlist title should not be changed, scores must be
separated from filename by at least 2 spaces, track names should be indented
by two spaces; and if you add or remove lines, you should reload playlist.

You can move lines around to play tracks in different order within a
directory, if you want to mix tracks from different directories, you can
either make a copy of the dir together with file, e.g.:

The Sugarcubes - Life's Too Good - 1988/
  01 - The Sugarcubes - Traitor.flac  [35]
Tom Waits Small Change flac/
  Tom Waits - Small Change - 01 - Tom Traubert's Blues.flac  [35]

This way each track takes 2 lines. You can have track on one line instead,
together with the directory:

  Tom Waits Small Change flac/Tom Waits - Small Change - 01 - Tom Traubert's Blues.flac  [35]
  The Sugarcubes - Life's Too Good - 1988/01 - The Sugarcubes - Traitor.flac  [35]

Notice that there has to be two leading spaces now, for the indicator. There
is a command that will take the track from current line and paste it in the
next blank line together with the dir it belongs to: '\t'.

When you're in playlist buffer and one track finishes and another starts
playing, you will jump automatically to the new track, unless you set
s:follow_current to 0.

Vimp3 server script will sometimes print error messages about mplayer not
being able to connect to socket, not finding such file or directory, LIRC and
pulse audio warnings; you can safely ignore these.

    Tips
========

    - If you have a directory outside of music root, you can make a symbolic
      link (unix 'ln -s' command) under root, and then use 'add path' - '\D'
      command to add it to your playlist.
